So we're gonna go move on and
talk about useCallback.
This is gonna look really familiar to you
because it's relatively the same thing.
And actually useCallback is implemented
by using useMemo internally.
So they actually have
the same sort of mechanism.
So, same sort of thing here,
notice we have used callback here,
and we have a timer
that's counting up here.
But notice this last
rerender here is 11:36, so
it's different from what's down here.
But as soon as I click this current count,
it does rerender down here, right?
So it's only re-rendering every
time that I increment this.
Let's talk about why that is.
So I have this expensive computation
component, which is doing the same thing,
it's using Fibonacci again, right?
Compute, where's my compute function here?
It's coming from that, okay?
And then here I have my Fibonacci again.
But just you can replace this in your
brain as a really expensive thing to
compute, right?
So here the callback component, the parent
component, I have the time, the set time,
right, and that's counting up here.
And then I have the count and
set count, so that's what this is.
It's just counting up.
And then I have an effect here in
the parent component that's counting up,
right, or
rather it's updating with the time.
Okay, I have my Fibonacci here.
And then down here,
What I'm doing is I'm passing
into the expensive computation component
down here, useCallback with Fibonacci,
and then I'm just telling it to not
re-render, unless it changes, right?
So why do we do that?
Cuz Fibonacci is actually
being calculated down here
in the expensive computation component.
And the reason why that's bad,
if I just pass in Fibonacci directly here,
Notice this is now re-rendering
every single time, why?
Well, Fibonacci here which exists
inside of callback component gets
recreated every single time that
we re-render the component.
So every time,
this is actually going to be a different
function that does the same thing, right?
But to react down here in
expensive computation component,
it says, hey,
compute is changing every single time.
Why does it think that?
And why does it matter
in this particular case?
Well count, if you have like x = 5, right?
And then later I go back to say,
hey, is x = = = 5?
The answer is, yeah, right, it is.
However, if I have a function
here, Function y.
Okay, let's do it this way.
Why does it stopped doing that?
Okay, I have cons y = generic function,
right?
This is just like the most basic function,
let's even just do this.
All right,
it's just a generic function here.
If I go back and
ask later is y = = = function like that?
It's not, right?
They're both empty functions but
they're different empty functions, okay?
Why is that important?
That's important because expensive
computation component is judging,
do I need to re-render by looking at
the props and saying is count the same.
Yeah, it's the same.
Is compute the same?
No, I got a different compute this time,
right?
It's the same function, but
it's the same principle here
of like it's different, right?
It's a different instance of the same
function because I'm recreating it every
single time here in this render function,
right?
That's a problem.
That's why, you don't want that anyway,
we can get rid of that
That's a problem here because,
if this number starts
getting really big,
let's make this 30 again.
It's re-computing this
every single time because
this compute thing is
coming back different.
So this is what useCallback does for you.
If I put now useCallback And
I say Fibonacci is never changing,
it's always the same one.
Therefore, this will not re-render
cuz it's giving it back the same
function, right?
In the same way that useMemo is giving you
back the same thing over and over again.
Now, it's a very specific use case here.
There's a bunch of ways that you
could optimize people saying, like,
why don't we just pull Fibonacci out?
That's a wonderful idea and
you should definitely do that, right?
But there are specific use
cases where useCallback here
can be helpful to help your app
not unnecessarily re-render.
All right, let's make that so
it's not doing that every single time.
30, let's put that down to 1.
So again,
very specific performance optimization.
But I guess what the major takeaway from
you here is, the way that React decides,
am I gonna re-render or not,
is it checks your props and it say, okay.
Compute encountered the same
thing not gonna re-render this,
even though the parent has to re-render,
it'll just give you back
the same result before for the child
component if the props don't change.
That's again my side effects are very
important that you're not causing side
effects in your render functions, yeah.
>> There's a question in the chat about
the memo function there on line four and
I'm curious, yeah,
is that part of what's necessary
to have this useCallback function?
>> Yes.
So, memo is a function that comes from
React, that allows this kind of thing
to do here, which is to say that it
checks the props and only re-renders it.
Otherwise, it would just do it anyway.
I think if I just got rid of that.
Now, notice down here,
it's re-rendering every single time.
So yeah, what I was just saying
about it checking the props,
that only applies if memo is applied.
Yep, But
now notice I put it back in,
and it is not re-rendering.
Cool, other questions?
I see a lot of people that will always
wrap their components in memo as well,
terrible idea.
Again, in general, React is very fast,
and so this re-compute are very fast.
And so you typically don't have to worry
about these performance optimizations.
Only use memo when you actually have
an expensive component to render.
Now, I'm showing you this with like
an expensive function like Fibonacci.
But imagine if you had like a spreadsheet
component that had,100,000 lines in it,
that's a really good thing
that you might put memo on it.
And you might use some of these
things on it where it's really
expensive to render 100,000
lines of a spreadsheet.
Sometimes you might need to re-render it.
You only wanna re-render
when you absolutely have to.
That makes sense?
But honestly, you probably still
wanna check the performance profile,
you might still wanna re-render it,
who knows?
Okay, any other questions
about useCallback.
>> As so
we can't use useCallback without memo?
>> Probably,
I'm struggling to think of when you could.
Let's say that they're almost
always hooked together.
I'm sure someone can invent
the reason why not to.
But the primary reason is that you would
want to cause your child's component to
not re-render when you're
passing it a function,
which would require useCallback or
would require memo.
So you can use memo without useCallback,
but
I'm pretty sure you can't use
useCallback without memo.
If I'm wrong,
someone correct me in the chat.
>> So to clarify, memo is checking the
props to see if they changed to re-render,
I thought React already did this?
>> It doesn't, no,
React is just gonna re-render.
Yeah, I kind of misspoke
a little bit earlier on that.
>> Is what they're thinking of is probably
the dependent arrays that we pass to
our hooks.
>> Not sure I understood what you said.
>> I'm guessing what this user
was thinking and guessing and
checking the props to see if
they changed through under,
that sounds like the behavior about
dependency arrays that we pass.
>> I think it's pretty close, yeah.
I mean, the long story short is just
making sure that this use or this
Fibonacci that you're passing to it is
the same callback everything single time.
Anyway, I've never had
professionals use this.
We've spent a bunch of
time learning about it.
I've never had any
professional use useCallback.
So it is not the most useful.
And I've actually heard someone on
the React core team say that they
probably should have just
left it with useMemo and
let users re-implement
useCallback themselves.
It is a fairly nice use case